---
layout: post
title: Finding disks for ESXi kickstart-script
subtitle: Finding disks and kicking them
tags:
  - esxi
  - vmware
published: true
---

How do you find the disks you want to install on? It's true that while generic scripts might help, sometimes we have to be a bit more specific. You'd want the kickstart-script to install on a specific drive and then set up a datastore on your raid (or specific raid, if you have several). You'd also want it to handle any old datastores and installations that might be laying around. Take a look at this generic script:

~~~
accepteula
install --firstdisk --overwritevmfs
rootpw vmware123
reboot
~~~

This script installs ESXi on the first drive avaible, and then reboots. Sure, it's a tiny part of the script, but it does assume your server is new or has a freshly set up raid with no partitions on.
But what if you want to install ESXi on a specific drive? And then make a datastore on another drive/raid? Looking through the command reference found [here](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/2004582) we can see that we can use the following commands with arguments to install ESXi and partition our datastore:

~~~
install --firstdisk=argument1,argument2,argument3 --novmfsondisk --overwritevmfs
partition datastore1 --onfirstdisk=argument1,argument2,argument3
~~~

The arguments in this case refers to the 3 differents options you can chose from, namely:

- Local - install on first LOCAL disk
- Remote - install on first REMOTE disk (FC or iSCi LUN disk)
- USB - install on a device that uses this driver in the vmkernel (might be the case for SD-cards)

Now, let's construct our base script. We want to install ESXi on a SD-card and then put our datastore on our raid. How would we do this, reliably? First we need to find the names of the disks (either in BIOS/UEFI) or by using these commands:

~~~
esxcli storage core adapter list
esxcli storage core device list
esxcli storage nmp device list
~~~

Now we should have a list of adapters and disks. We can use the adapter name/type and disk name/type for our arguments. Please keep in mind that SAS-disks might register as remote disks, for some reason. [Don't ask.](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/1027819) Also please keep in mind that you should always review what hardware you have and adjust kickstart-scripts accordingly.
An example might be this:

~~~
accepteula
rootpw vmware123
clearpart --alldrives --overwritevmfs
install --firstdisk=ata --novmfsondisk --overwritevmfs
partition datastore1 --onfirstdisk=sas,local
~~~

This script should, if the parameters for the disks are right, clear all drives (even if vmfs exists), then install on the first _ata-disk_ it finds, also overwriting existing config. Then finally it partitions a datastore on the first _sas-disk_ it finds, which should be a virtual drive for our raid. Keep in mind this is just the install and datastore part of the kickstart script - for more information I recommend heading over to virtuallyghetto.com and view William Lam's great guide [here](https://www.virtuallyghetto.com/2014/10/how-to-automate-vm-deployment-from-large-usb-keys-using-esxi-kickstart.html).

Hope this helps.

//INF


